Important: An incoming packet will hit the capture before any ACL or NAT or other processing. An outgoing packet will hit a capture last before being put on the wire.

Basic EPC Configuration

Define a 'capture buffer', which is a temporary buffer that the captured packets are stored within. There are various options that can be selected when the buffer is defined; such as size, maximum packet size, and circular/linear:
monitor capture buffer BUF size 2048 max-size 1518 circular

A filter can also be applied to limit the capture to desired traffic. Define an Access Control List (ACL) within config mode and apply the filter to the buffer:
ip access-list extended BUF-FILTER
   permit ip host 150.1.0.4 any
   permit ip any  host 150.1.0.4

monitor capture buffer BUF filter access-list BUF-FILTER

Define a 'capture point', which defines the location where the capture occurs. The capture point also defines whether the capture occurs for IPv4 or IPv6 and in which switching path (process versus cef):
monitor capture point ip cef POINT Ethernet0/0 both

Attach the buffer to the capture point:
monitor capture point associate POINT BUF

Start the capture:
monitor capture point start POINT

The capture is now active. Allow collection of the necessary data.

Stop the capture:
monitor capture point stop POINT

Examine the buffer on the unit:
show monitor capture buffer BUF dump

Note: This output only shows the hex dump of the packets captures. In order to see them in human readable there are two ways.

Export the buffer from the router for further analysis:
monitor capture buffer BUF export tftp://10.10.163.36/BUF_JWTCRLV01.pcap

This is not always practical as it required TFTP access to the router. In such situations, you can take a copy of the hex dump and use any online hex-pcap convertor in order to view the files.

Once the necessary data has been collected, delete the 'capture point' and 'capture buffer':
no monitor capture point ip cef POINT Ethernet0/0 both
no monitor capture buffer BUF

Notes:
In releases earlier than Cisco IOS Release 15.0(1)M, the buffer size was limited to 512K.
In releases earlier than Cisco IOS Release 15.0(1)M, the captured packet size was limited to 1024 bytes.

The packet buffer is stored in DRAM and will not persist through reloads.

The capture configuration is not stored in NVRAM and will not persist through reloads.

The capture point can be defined to capture in the cef or process switching paths.
The capture point can be defined to capture only on an interface or globally.

When the capture buffer is exported in PCAP format, L2 information (such as Ethernet encapsulation) is not preserved.

See Best Practices for searching Commands in order to obtain more information on the commands used in this section.

